---
layout: post
title: Two Years Post Grad
subtitle: Reflections 
date: 2017-05-25
author: Erika Miguel
---

Taking a break from the usual DevOps/techie posts for a minute -- 

Last weekend I visited my alma mater's commencement to see Oprah deliver her commencement address to the class of 2017. When I heard that she would be this year's commencement speaker, I knew that I was going to make the trek to Smith, if only to fulfill my childhood dream of seeing her IRL. Her 4pm show on ABC 7 marked my afternoons as a middle school student. Her show sparked conversations about popular culture, health, and wealth between my family and me, amidst the housecleaning chores and math problems happening in our home. Fast forward about ten years later, Smith -- my alma mater, the place that molded me into a woke professional, the place that engaged me in upper class dialogue about the city I grew up in -- bridged my past and my present.

In the audience, I listened to Oprah deliver her speech about the secret to her success. Though starstruck, I managed to take notes on what I thought was important advice. "How can I be used" she said, challenging us to put our talents into service, to use our skills to contribute to the world. Perhaps this is the same advice that all successful people give to budding adults. Perhaps, success is just that simple.

Oprah's speech also took a spiritual approach. "Give because your cup runneth over", Oprah exclaimed, her voice bouncing the quadrangle's dorms. Her message of serving others in order to succeed yourself is a lesson that I have pondered in the last two years, after graduating in 2015. I wondered, then, how many of the graduates truly understood what she was saying. I have a suspicion Oprah's words resonated with the hustlers, the dreamers, and the givers in the crowd. For, it is only when you have chased a goal or dream with your whole being, failed, and picked yourself up again, that you realize you should share yourself. So that others can learn. So that others can be inspired. So that others can lift themselves up. 

So, to you, I leave my story. My post-grad thus far:

Two years ago, in 2015, I came home from Smith, ferverish and disillusioned. Four years of intellectual journeying, emotional turmoil, and physical freedom all but vanished as I slept in my old bed in my parents' home in Yonkers. I felt like I lost my opportunity to do college right. I should have written the thesis. I should have gone abroad to another country. I should have. I should have. 

The second half of 2015 should have been called "The Disaster of Adulting". In my mind, there were too many things going on at once: prepping to move out of my parents' house, gearing up for my first job in fintech, missing my friends, missing people I loved. I spread myself too thin worrying about these things. I didn't know how to prioritize my life. I valued sticky situations over building my life productively. By the time I moved into my new apartment, I was heartbroken, lonely, and unfulfilled in my work. Two months into adulting, I had maxed out my credit card trying to feed myself because rent had taken most of my savings. What scared me most was being alone, after a long day of writing code that I didn't care about. No direction, no career plans, I was lost.

From August to November, I was trapped in a paycheck-to-paycheck cycle to bootstrap my life, not thinking about what I loved doing, who I wanted to be around, and where my future should go. Though my parents supported me emotionally and physically with leftovers, they did not have the means to help me financially or the knowledge of how to navigate a white collar profession. I did not know anyone juggling around professional etiquette, fiercely paying off $25K worth of student debt, and giving money to my family for some expenses. I was so scared for people to know I was gay in the workplace that I even dated a male colleague and work clothes that were more feminine, even though that was not me. I felt truly alone in my journey, barely surviving in my mind.

My professional life started turning around before Thanksgiving of 2015, when I decided that I wanted to leave my dress coded job to something more tech-oriented. So, I brushed up on my data structures for one month, and starting interviewing around for a new gig.I didn't get a new job until April of 2016. One rejection and four months of thinking I'd never leave the current situation, I found a new job! From then, I began the DevOps journey that I am on today.

Though I haven't been out of school or working very long, life has taught me a few things around following my dreams. Like Oprah's message, I was not able to change my situation until I evaulated what I wanted to do and what I was good at. When I was trying to change jobs, I interviewed as a software engineer, when I did not have a big passion for it. I had to be open to accepting that I was built for a different type of tech, and that meant taking a job that built my DevOps career from scratch. 

How can I be used? Well, as of right now I love fixing shit on servers, dancing on the command-line for days, and building high level architecture so that the companies I work for can **deliver** their products and services efficiently and resiliently. I love what I do, and I am blessed that the dissatisfaction I felt in my early career pushed me to take inventory of my skills to find a job that I am fulfilled in. But, that's just the professional side. 

When I was lost, I did not keep clear tabs with my family. I was not open to loving myself. I was hanging out with the wrong personality types at my job. All of that took a negative toll on my life and on my body. Strangely enough, my emotional health translated physically into gray hairs and losing too much weight in a short amount of time. I needed to make changes in my personal life. 

In conjunction with my professional growth, I stopped hanging around the people at work who made me feel uncomfortable, I visited my family more often and taking care of my younger sisters. I got comfortable being an LGBT professional at work by dressing in my style. I reconnected with my queerness and welcomed any kind queer romance. I stopped drinking too much and partying. Through those changes, I was able to serve the people I love with my time. Something as simple as spending time with my 9-year-old sister or in mindfulness allowed my cup to flow. 

The hardest skill I've had to learn in the last two years is reorienting my notion of time. In school, there are clear deadlines for assignments, set dates for vacations, and guidelines for advancing within the system. I was a student with a structured life for 18 years. However, after graduation, I found myself with a free form lifestyle that frustrated me. I both had no time because of work and also what felt like *all* the time in the world after work. At first, I used my time very inefficiently. I scrolled on my phone too much. I went to too many happy-hours. 
Those activities misused the few hours I had after work. I expected my dreams to realize themselves though I put my opposite efforts such as socializing. When I did engage in study and learning, I expected the changes and knowledge to happen immediately. 

Post-grad, time exposes itself as a slow, unending road. There is so much of it and so little at the same time. Therefore, it is imperative to make clear deadlines for your goals. A simple rule of thumb is, **the bigger the goal, allocate more time to it**. For example, if you want to go to grad school, aim for two years from the time you decide to the time of acceptance. The journey to achieving that goal comprises of smaller goals that can be achieved in a shorter amount of time, like writing your statement of purpose in three months. Most importantly, it's necessary to forgive yourself if you digress from ***the goal***. Though I am dedicated to learning about servers and programming, I'll never regret taking three days to learn Harry Styles' "Sweet Creature" on the guitar; I can't possibly recreate happy, artistic afternoons like those.

Oprah's message is not something new. That day, she told the audience a formula for success that anyone who open enough would have found eventually. I found her message in my rocky two years of post-grad. In the long nights of asking myself, "Is this how I want to live? Is this really my life?", I found that I wanted to be a better engineer and an active family member. Your passions are not one dimensional. Do what you love every day, and prosperity will come. Oprah said it herself. I'm sure it's true.
