---
layout: post
title: Life updates!
subtitle: C the change
date: 2017-09-12
author: Erika Miguel
---

WOW. It's September, and I have pretty much been MIA for all of July and August. I haven't even posted a picture on my Instagram since mid-August. Bad milennial.

For all of July and all of August, Megan and I were living in various AirBnbs and hotels while we waited for our lease to start on September 1st. Every three to four days we would pick up our bags and drive to a new location. It's been a pretty exhilarating summer, to say the least. We bounced from Medford, Cambridge, Tewksbury, Supply (North Carolina), New York, and Connecticut. It's only now that we've moved into our lovely apartment that I am really feeling the travel fatigue. I honestly do not know how I managed to deliver new infrastructure and automated scripts in this time. I am absolutely so grateful for the work-life balance my job provided to accommodate my perpatetic lifestyle.

Now, I am settled in Somerville, Massachusetts. New York will always be in my heart and my first home, but I am ready to start my new life in Mass (and I am ever so anxious to change my license plates... oooooo boy, Mass drivers hate New York plates). I see Massachusetts as a place where I could get more education, live a balanced lifestyle, and be myself. When I was in New York, I felt like I needed to be a certain way to fit in and also live up to the city's pace. Boston, I am hoping, is more my style. It's a slower paced city, which I vibe with, and the tech scene is just as good as New York's. More to come on this.

Some updates on my tech life. I started learning C for my job. I am up close and personal with pointers, references, structs, and macros. In learning C, I gain a better understanding of what is going on in the lower levels of software (I actually saw some assembly code today!). I also appreciate sorting and searching algorithms more, even though there are probably C libraries that do this (qsort, I'm looking at you), because C kind of makes you think about how your sorting/searching could be more efficient. I feel so spoiled from my experience with Java and Python because I am more inclined to rely on libraries to take care of certain functions.

ALSO, I feel like my brain can understand OOP concepts, algorithms, and run-times more. This knowledge, that I learned in college and through practicing from time to time, hit me, like WHAM. I am inspired to just write more code. Any kind of code. Tests, patterns, anything! I can't believe it's taken me this long to get the hang of OOP and design patterns. I really hope I can catch up. 

Infrastructure as code is cool, but it's not everything. I believe that developers should know how to write IaC and that ops people should be able to code well. In the same way that a framework or code library is well documented, scripting should also be well documented. Scripting can also use OOP principles; it doesn't have to be spaghetti code.I had this epiphany when I was working with a software engineer on my team. DevOps is cool because it is breaking down the silos between developers and ops people that exist today. But, I hope one day that the distinction between those types of engineers disappear into a single developer role.

I am trying to build my career to look just like that vision. As a result of my goal, I am refusing to look at any career path that is strictly "DevOps" or "Cloud Engineer" or "Production Engineer". I think that every engineer involved in the tech industry should try to exercise the practices in DevOps and cloud technology and resilient production systems. These aspects of software engineering are part of the process and shouldn't be feared. At the same time, I think a tech organization can do a better job at ensuring that ops engineers can code to a software engineer's standard. I look at some of the things that I wrote in the past and some scripts in my public repos. They for sure need refactoring, styling, and OOP. The problem that I've seen in the last two placed I've worked is that ops code is not held to a higher standard. Code -- any code --  should be reviewd, tested, and built somehow to ensure good quality software in all parts of a tech org.

(In lieu of this, I decided to take down the chats section of the site because I want to build it the right way.)

Why doesn't this seem to click? If so, where do I find more of it? Feel free to e-mail me links of this kind of trend in industry and the types of careers that arise from it.

Until next time!
