---
layout: post
title: Did I really burn out a servo?
subtitle: IoT crazed
date: 2017-10-14
author: Erika Miguel
---

Yes, I did burn out a servo because I supplied 9v instead of 6v to the little machine. Only after I bricked the servo did I find out that I had to use a voltage regulator, which could take an input of higher voltage and lower it to its designed level. I'm super bummed because I bought a whole pack this summer, anticipating to use one in one of my microcontroller experiments. Anyway, I lived and learned...and bought a whole bunch of servos just in case!

After using one of the new servos today, on my new Raspberry Pi 3 (go and buy one! built in WiFi!!), I embarked on a new exploration: AWS IoT. I have been wanting to use the IoT functionality for a while, so I buckled down and learned what it was all about. AWS IoT is pretty much an MQTT broker as a service, which also streams the data received to other AWS functions. MQTT is the low power, lightweight protocol by which a device in the field can use to send messages to an MQTT broker over the internet.

Since I do not have a device right now, though I do intend to integrate some servos to AWS IoT, I made a little mock exercise of an LED light using STDIN inputs in Python. Basically what happens in the code is a device's state is sent to AWS IoT, and if the desired state is not fulfilled, publish a delta message back to the client. 

You can check out the exercise [here](https://github.com/evmiguel/iot_exercises/tree/master/mockDevice). It relies heavily on other IoT "Hello World" style exercises, which I made sure to cite, but I plan to build off of this one for my servo experiment... when I think of one.
